## Flutter for android developers
In Android, you update your views by directly mutating them. However, in Flutter, Widgets are immutable and are not updated directly, instead you have to work with the widget’s state.

This is where the concept of Stateful and Stateless widgets comes from. A StatelessWidget is just what it sounds like—a widget with no state information.

StatelessWidgets are useful when the part of the user interface you are describing does not depend on anything other than the configuration information in the object.

For example, in Android, this is similar to placing an ImageView with your logo. The logo is not going to change during runtime, so use a StatelessWidget in Flutter.

If you want to dynamically change the UI based on data received after making an HTTP call or user interaction then you have to work with StatefulWidget and tell the Flutter framework that the widget’s State has been updated so it can update that widget.

The important thing to note here is at the core both stateless and stateful widgets behave the same. They rebuild every frame, the difference is the StatefulWidget has a State object that stores state data across frames and restores it.

If you are in doubt, then always remember this rule: if a widget changes (because of user interactions, for example) it’s stateful. However, if a widget reacts to change, the containing parent widget can still be stateless if it doesn’t itself react to change.

The following example shows how to use a StatelessWidget. A common StatelessWidget is the Text widget. If you look at the implementation of the Text widget you’ll find that it subclasses StatelessWidget.

```dart
Text(
  'I like Flutter!',
  style: TextStyle(fontWeight: FontWeight.bold),
);
```

As you can see, the Text Widget has no state information associated with it, it renders what is passed in its constructors and nothing more.

But, what if you want to make “I Like Flutter” change dynamically, for example when clicking a FloatingActionButton?

To achieve this, wrap the Text widget in a StatefulWidget and update it when the user clicks the button.

For example:

```dart
import 'package:flutter/material.dart';

void main() {
  runApp(const SampleApp());
}

class SampleApp extends StatelessWidget {
  const SampleApp({super.key});
  // This widget is the root of your application.
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return MaterialApp(
      title: 'Sample App',
      theme: ThemeData(
        primarySwatch: Colors.blue,
      ),
      home: const SampleAppPage(),
    );
  }
}

class SampleAppPage extends StatefulWidget {
  const SampleAppPage({super.key});

  @override
  State<SampleAppPage> createState() => _SampleAppPageState();
}

class _SampleAppPageState extends State<SampleAppPage> {
  // Default placeholder text.
  String textToShow = 'I Like Flutter';

  void _updateText() {
    setState(() {
      // Update the text.
      textToShow = 'Flutter is Awesome!';
    });
  }

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Scaffold(
      appBar: AppBar(
        title: const Text('Sample App'),
      ),
      body: Center(child: Text(textToShow)),
      floatingActionButton: FloatingActionButton(
        onPressed: _updateText,
        tooltip: 'Update Text',
        child: const Icon(Icons.update),
      ),
    );
  }
}
```